
- Different <span style="color:rgb(112, 48, 160)">CPU-scheduling</span> algorithms have different properties, and the choice of a particular algorithm may favor one class of processes over another. In choosing which algorithm to use in a particular situation, we must consider the properties of the various algorithms. 
- Many <span style="color:rgb(112, 48, 160)">criteria</span> have been suggested for comparing CPU-scheduling algorithms. Which characteristics are used for comparison can make a substantial difference in which algorithm is judged to be best. The <span style="color:rgb(112, 48, 160)">criteria</span> include the following:<span style="color:rgb(112, 48, 160)"></span>
	- <span style="color:rgb(112, 48, 160)">CPU utilization</span>. We want to keep the CPU as busy as possible. Conceptually, CPU utilization can range from 0 to 100 percent. 
	- <span style="color:rgb(112, 48, 160)">Throughput</span>. If the CPU is busy executing processes, then work is being done. One measure of work is the number of processes that are completed per time unit, called <span style="color:rgb(112, 48, 160)">throughput</span>. For long processes, this rate may be one process over several seconds; for short transactions, it may be tens of processes per second.
	- <span style="color:rgb(112, 48, 160)">Turnaround time</span>. From the point of view of a particular process, the important criterion is how long it takes to execute that process. The interval from the time of submission of a process to the time of completion is the <span style="color:rgb(112, 48, 160)">turnaround time</span>. <span style="color:rgb(112, 48, 160)">Turnaround time</span> is the sum of the periods spent waiting in the ready queue, executing on the CPU, and doing I/O.
	- <span style="color:rgb(112, 48, 160)">Waiting time</span>. The CPU-scheduling algorithm does not affect the amount of time during which a process executes or does I/O. It affects only the amount of time that a process spends waiting in the ready queue. <span style="color:rgb(112, 48, 160)">Waiting time</span> is the sum of the periods spent waiting in the ready queue.
	- <span style="color:rgb(112, 48, 160)">Response time</span>. In an interactive system, turnaround time may not be the best criterion. Often, a process can produce some output fairly early and can continue computing new results while previous results are being output to the user. Thus, another measure is the time from the submission of a request until the first response is produced. This measure, called response time, is the time it takes to start responding, not the time it takes to output the response.

- It is desirable to<span style="color:rgb(112, 48, 160)"> maximize</span> CPU utilization and throughput and to <span style="color:rgb(112, 48, 160)">minimize</span> turnaround time, waiting time, and response time. In most cases, we optimize the average measure. 
- However, under some circumstances, we prefer to optimize the <span style="color:rgb(112, 48, 160)">minimum</span> or <span style="color:rgb(112, 48, 160)">maximum</span> values <span style="color:rgb(112, 48, 160)">rather</span> than the <span style="color:rgb(112, 48, 160)">average</span>. 
	- For example, to guarantee that all users get good service, we may want to <span style="color:rgb(112, 48, 160)">minimize</span> the <span style="color:rgb(112, 48, 160)">maximum response time</span>.